and the Mac OS X evangelist,
Xavier Legros.
Hi, everybody.
Welcome to session 203,
Migrating to Carbon Events.
This session is very important
for all Carbon developers,
not because Carbon Events are very
important technology in Mac OS X,
but because it's the start of the future.
This session is the beginning where
we're going to be introducing brand
new features for Carbon developers.
And for that,
for you to take advantage of
actually these new features
we're going to be bringing,
you're going to have
to use Carbon Events.
Today we're going to be
talking about a lot of things.
We're going to help you understand
all the different steps for
you to move to Carbon Events.
And you have to understand
that this session is the
base for you to move forward.
and to talk about the future and
to talk about how you're going to
be developing and how you're going
to be migrating to Carbon Events.
I'd like to invite on stage Curt Rothert,
who actually has been working
on the toolbox and will take
you on a step-by-step approach
for migrating your application.
Curt?
So good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
It is a pleasure to be here with
you to talk about Carbon Events.
Carbon Events, in a nutshell,
is the event dispatching system
in the high-level toolbox.
It permeates every part of the toolbox,
and it has been designed
specifically for performance,
extensibility, and modularity.
So, what is this session about?
First, I'm going to give you an overview
of the Carbon Event model so
we can become familiar with it.
and be comfortable with using it to
migrate your WaitNext Event-based
application to Carbon Events.
Who is this design for?
Well, if you have an application that
you want to add new features to,
if you're running--existing running
on OS 9 or OS X using WaitNext Event,
and you want to take advantage of
new features or new technologies
that are available on OS X,
this is for you.
It's also if you want to
migrate your current event
processing over to Carbon Events,
and also to be a good Mac OS X citizen in
terms of performance and functionality.
So you may be asking yourself,
"What benefits will I get by
moving to Carbon Events?" Well,
importantly, it encourages a modular
design in your application.
That is, that you can incorporate
your event processing with
your UI of your application.
So if you work with different groups,
they can incorporate different modules,
and you can put them
together with very few,
if any, integration problems whatsoever.
It's also compatible back to Mac OS 8.6
with the Carbon Lib shared library.
It's important because the toolbox
can add new features for free.
You benefit from standard features
that are available in the toolbox,
And as new features are added,
you get those for free.
It's also helpful because this
predictable behavior defined by Apple.
Now, traditionally,
Apple has provided human interface
guidelines that you would
have had to react to and put
together into your application,
which makes your application's
event processing part of your app.
Well, using Carbon Events,
we have the responsibility of
taking care of the event processing.
and new features in Mac OS X and in the
high-level toolbox are Carbon Event only.
There's also a number of
performance improvements.
You may be asking yourself,
what kind of performance improvements?
Well, it encourages no polling.
Using WaitNextEvent,
you're sitting on one entry point,
polling, trying to figure out if
an event has happened.
With Carbon Events,
you no longer have to do that.
It's a direct dispatching model.
So when an event happens,
it's dispatched to your event handler,
and you do the processing
that you need to do.
In this way,
there's no dead-end event processing.
And what I mean by that is,
let's say the user clicks in the
menu bar to track down a menu,
and then they decide they don't
want to select a menu item.
So they track off and release.
Using WaitNextEvent,
you would be getting that mouse down.
You'd be asking the toolbox,
where was that mouse down,
finding that it was in the menu bar,
and then telling the
toolbox to track that.
Well, the user drags off.
They don't select any menu item.
And your application was involved with
dispatching an event that did nothing.
So Carbon Events gets away from that.
And there are APIs that are
specifically designed for performance.
And for a lot more information on that,
please go see Session 207,
Performance with Carbon Events,
which is tomorrow in this hall at 3:30.
So an important thing to know
about Carbon Events is you
can migrate at your own pace.
You can make incremental changes
in your application that help
move off of WaitNextEvent
and go over to Carbon Events.
Like I mentioned earlier,
it encourages a modular
design in your application.
So you can add new modules
to your application and not
have your WaitNext Event code
affected by those changes.
At this point,
I think it's important to look at
the relationship between the look
and feel of a Mac OS application.
Traditionally, the look is presented by
the appearance manager.
The UI is drawn by that.
And it's important to use the
Appearance Manager because it adds a
layer of abstraction for the drawing.
If you were always drawing your
custom controls every time,
like the migration from OS 9 and
OS 8 using Platinum over to Aquon 10,
it would have been very difficult.
So it was facilitated by
using the Appearance Manager.
Well, similarly,
the event processing using
WaitNextEvent is limited in the
sense that we can't move forward,
add new behaviors, add new functionality.
So the toolbox has provided that,
just tools for you to add and
make your own application,
such as different types of controls,
push buttons, radio buttons, check boxes.
You put all of those
into your application,
and you're responsible for taking care
of what happens with those controls.
Well, it's useful to think of
Carbon Events as a full framework.
The framework for your
house is already built.
All you need to do is plug into
the functionality that you're
interested in benefiting from.
So what does this mean
for an event-driven app?
Well, with WaitNextEvent,
as I mentioned earlier,
you have to process each event
and tell the toolbox what to do.
Now, it's important to understand
that WaitNextEvent is based
on top of Carbon Events.
So any new functionality that
you add using Carbon Events won't
affect your WaitNextEvent code.
In fact, it will bypass-- if you
handle certain events,
it won't even be returned
to WaitNextEvent.
So you can take care of some event
processing on your own by bypassing that.
And with Carbon Events,
the toolbox processes each event
and then tells you what to do.
So graphically, what's going on here?
Is with WaitNextEvent, your application
gets an event from the event loop.
It figures out what to do with
many switch case statements,
tries to figure out where
should I dispatch this to,
dispatches it to your own handlers,
and then you tell the toolbox what to do.
With Carbon Events,
you define a set of events that
you're interested in receiving.
You tell the toolbox about that.
You get into the event loop,
which blocks,
and the toolbox will dispatch events.
And if it's an event that
you're interested in,
it will call back into your
application's handlers,
and you take care of the event.
So because of this,
it encourages the event handling of your
application to be part of the design.
Like I mentioned earlier,
you can design all the functionality
in a module that deals with the UI.
for example, if you wanted to add a
new Inspector window,
all of the event handling for that
window could be in the file or module
that deals with the UI of that window.
So you can take new modules,
plug them in,
very few integration problems.
And a lot of standard behaviors are
provided for free by the toolbox.
But those behaviors can be
overrided by you to enhance it
with your own functionality.
So how are events
dispatched in the toolbox?
As you can see in this image,
an event can go, like, let's say,
for example,
that the user clicks in a control.
If the control does not handle the event,
it gets propagated to its parent
if it's in an embedded situation.
If its parent doesn't handle the event,
it gets dispatched and
falls down to the window.
If the window doesn't handle it,
it propagates to the application.
At that point, if it's not handled,
it gets returned via WaitNextEvent.
So at any point along this,
you can install a handler,
handle the event,
take care of your functionality.
If you've handled the event,
the propagation stops processing.
If you don't handle the event,
it drops down to the application
and then out via WaitNextEvent,
if it makes sense for
WaitNextEvent to return that event.
So it's a hierarchical dispatching model.
And because of that,
we can have standard handling,
which comes for free.
We have our handlers.
The toolbox has its handlers
installed on particular targets,
and it can take care of actions.
You can override those,
or if it's not handled,
it falls down out through WaitNextEvent.
But you can modify the standard
behavior because handlers are stackable.
Certain handlers are
provided by the toolbox,
and you can stack your
handler on top of that.
If you don't handle it,
it falls into the toolbox's
domain to take care of.
So first, let's go through a primer,
figure out what is this Carbon Event.
So let's become
comfortable with using it.
So I want to talk about the
data types and the APIs that
are specific to Carbon Events.
Now, all of these are in the
carbontevents.h header.
So if you have your laptop,
you can pop it out and read it as we go.
So I'll be talking about the
event type spec data structure,
which indicates in the toolbox
what events you're interested in.
I'll talk about the Event Ref type,
which is the main type of notification,
how you are notified that
an event has happened.
will talk about the Event Target Ref,
and this is where you install your
handler and where events are sent to.
and also an Event Handler Ref,
which is a reference to your
installed Event Handler.
So the event type spec is a
very simple data structure,
which includes the event
class and the event kind.
The event class is the high-level
class of the type of event.
For example,
if an event happened in a control,
it's K event class control.
Or, no, yes.
If it's in a window,
it's a K event class window.
And then the event kind is a constant
indicating what kind of event that was.
So if there was a mouse down,
for instance,
that would be K event class mouse,
K event mouse down.
And usually you're interested
in more than one type of event.
So when you tell the toolbox
what events you're interested in,
you pass it in as an array of this type.
The Event Ref is an opaque data type.
So when you need to get information
in or out of an Event Ref,
you have to use accessors.
and it can contain an arbitrary
amount of data in terms of
the number of data types,
in terms of the size of the data,
and in terms of the type of data.
Now, this is important because
it's extremely extensible.
In the future,
if we decide we want to add
different data to a particular event,
we can go ahead and do that.
and the data is referenced by
a parameter and a type pair.
And all of this is in the
Carbonevents.h header.
has a listing of what types of
parameters are in each particular
event and what type of data
that is that you can get out.
And also, it's a two-way street.
Information can come
in with an Event Ref,
and then you can set
information in that event,
and when the toolbox gets that,
it can act on that as well.
Each UI element has an event
target associated with it.
So that's in terms of windows, controls,
menus, the application,
even the user focus,
and the event dispatcher itself.
This is where you install
your event handler.
So if you're interested in
getting an event in a control,
you would install event
on that control target.
And the events are then sent to that
target and then to your handler.
The EventHandlerRef is a
reference to your EventHandler.
You get this when you
call installEventHandler.
You don't have to get this return.
You can pass it null if
you aren't interested.
But it's useful if you get into
a modal situation or a certain
particular mode where you want to add
event types to that handler or remove
event types from that handler because
you want a broader range of events
being dispatched to your handler,
for instance.
So that's the basic data
types to get going on a
Carbon Event-based application.
But how do I get notifications?
Well, you have to define your
Carbon Event handler,
and I'll describe how that looks next.
And then you install your
handler on an event target.
And then when events get dispatched,
they will get--your
callback will get called.
So this is what your event
handler would look like.
When you install on a particular
target and an event comes in,
it will call your handler with
an event handler call ref,
which is useful for manual propagation,
which I'll talk about later.
It will also give you the event ref,
what is the type of event
that has just occurred.
And it will also return to you some
user data that you specified when you
installed the handler on that target.
and the propagation,
whether it's dispatched
along the hierarchy,
is controlled by your return value.
If you handle the event,
you'll return no error.
And that tells the toolbox that
the event has been handled.
Stop propagation.
If the event not handled
error is returned,
that will tell the toolbox that
the event has not been handled.
Continue propagation.
So finally, to install the Event Handler,
you call installEventHandler.
Now this takes the target
that you're interested in,
[Transcript missing]
Now, if you get the EventHandler ref,
you can also remove the EventHandler
using RemoveEventHandler.
talk about all these groovy concepts.
I'd like to bring out Bryan Prusha
to give a quick demo of getting
a quick Carbon Event app running.
Bryan?
Thank you very much, Curt.
I'd like to just give a small walkthrough
of installing a Carbon Event and then
handling that Carbon Event elsewhere
in the application.
So this is pretty much the default
code generated by Project Builder
for a Carbon Nib-based application.
Now, the first thing I'd like
to do is show you the Nib.
So this is an Interface Builder document.
And so here's our default window.
I'm just going to add a couple
buttons and show off some of the
features of Interface Builder.
So you notice the lines appearing show
you how to line up your UI according
to the Aqua Human Interface guidelines.
So I'm going to make this a quit button,
and we'll make this a beat button.
Now here, I can show the information,
all the attributes on these buttons.
And I'm going to add
what's called a command ID.
So we'll make this the quit command.
There are a whole series
of default commands here.
I'll just choose quit.
So command IDs are things that can be
passed around as a Carbon Event that
you can intercept later.
So if I click this button,
this quit command ID will be sent out.
I can intercept that and
do what I want with it.
Now, for the beep button,
I'll just give it a beep command.
[Transcript missing]
We also have the beep
command installed here.
And so this command ID can
be sent out from the menus,
from buttons, and in fact,
it can also be sent out
from keyboard events.
So if I bring the window back up,
and here's the beep control.
I'm going to set this
to the default button.
So when I hit return or enter,
the button will be activated,
and the command will also be sent out.
So let me save that.
will come back to the code here.
Now here is just grabbing all
the information out of the nib,
grabbing the menu bar, the window that we
were just dealing with.
And then what I want to do special is
install this command event handler.
So the type of Carbon Event I want to
deal with is the kEvent class command
and kEvent command process kind.
So here I'll create the
universal procedure proc,
UPP, for my event handler.
And then I want to install
that event handler.
So I call the aptly named
installEventHandler.
And I want to install this on
the application event target.
Like I said, this is a high-level event,
not anything like a mouse down.
I don't have to--I don't care
whether it's in my control or a
window or a menu specifically.
In this case,
I want to get it no matter where
it comes from in the application.
So I'll install my event handler.
I'll count up the number of
events that I'm registering for.
And I'll register for these
particular notifications.
I'll call runApplicationEventLoop,
which drops us down into the
HIToolbox's event handling routines.
And this is where all
the standard handling,
things like that, happen for you.
And after we're done
running the application,
we want to dispose of that event handler.
So let's look at the
event handler itself.
Here I want to look at the HICommand,
which is what I registered for.
An HICommand is a data structure which
contains the command ID that I passed in.
So I want to get this
particular event parameter.
In this case,
it's the kventparam direct object.
And it's of type HICommand.
And I'll just grab
that command right out.
and I'm going to switch
off the command ID.
And in the case where it's beep,
which is my private type, which I set up,
I want to just call sys beep.
And in that case,
I want to return no error because I don't
want this to propagate anywhere else.
Nothing in the toolbox
cares about the beep ID.
It's only important to me.
So I don't want anybody
else to know about this.
But I also want to make sure
that in every other case,
for the default case,
I return event not handled error.
And this will allow the application
to go on processing every other
type of command that comes through.
In the case of this demo,
where I created the
quit beep-- I'm sorry,
the quit button,
I want to make sure that that quit
command ID is processed through
so the toolbox can intercept it
later and quit your application
on your behalf in a standard way.
So I'll go ahead and
run this application.
And we'll see how it behaves.
Now, there will be a lot of things that
happen for us here because the standard
event handlers are all being used.
So we'll get window dragging
and menu activation.
Oh, this is my worst nightmare.
Just compile it again.
Hmm.
Great.
Well, we're going to go a little
hardcore on you here,
so give me just a second.
I'm sorry?
All right.
Let me clean this, make sure everything's
all cleaned out here.
Build from scratch.
All right, here we go.
Whew.
Now we have our window.
It's dragging around.
We get that for free because
it's a default behavior.
We get the resize.
We get menu tracking.
This is great.
I didn't have to do anything
specifically to handle this.
What we're here to look
at is the command ID.
So here's my beep button,
and I'm gonna click, and then the command
ID beep will be sent out,
and I'll intercept it
in my handler and beep.
So, just as you would imagine,
this would happen.
And again,
because this is a high-level event,
I can hit Enter.
It tracks for me automatically,
and we get the same behavior.
And again from the menu.
If I wanted to,
I could quit this application
through the default quit menu item.
But in this case, I'm going to send this
off somewhere else.
I want to quit with my button.
So that quit command ID is sent off
and handled in a standard manner
by the IHI toolbox on your behalf.
All right, thank you very much.
Back to you, Curt.
Thanks, Bryan.
As you can see,
there was very little additional
code that needed to go in in
order to make a simple application
that actually did something.
There wasn't any boilerplate code
required using WaitNextEvent in order
to track the event and process it.
and So now that we understand how
to build a basic Carbon application,
Carbon Event-based application,
let's talk about how to migrate
your existing application.
So I've listed five steps for migration.
The first two steps
I think you could do today.
That is, first,
replace your tracking loops.
If you need to track where the mouse is,
for instance, the user clicks in a
certain area of your screen,
and you need to track where the mouse
location is while the mouse is down,
traditionally you'd sit in a
loop and pull the mouse location.
Well, we have API specifically
designed to get away from that,
and I'll describe that in a moment.
Second, get rid of null event
idling with WaitNextEvent.
WaitNextEvent, as you know,
returns null events if
no events have come in,
and you've asked for null events,
or it'll just return false.
And then you can do
some particular idling.
Well,
there's ways to deal with that as well.
And those two things you can do today.
Next,
get your feet wet with Carbon Events.
Design some new features
using Carbon Events.
will allow you to become
familiar with the data types,
the event handling,
how to install handlers
and handle those events.
Next.
With your existing event processing,
migrate that over to using Carbon Events.
I'll describe that in a moment as well.
And lastly,
when you've taken care of everything,
get rid of WaitNextEvent altogether.
It's been a good friend,
but we want to move forward.
Step one, replace your tracking loops.
Like I mentioned, traditionally,
when the user clicks on the mouse
button and you want to track that,
you would call, while still down,
getMouse.
Now what this does is
it sits in a tight loop,
pulling the hardware to see if--
where the mouse location is.
It's bad because it's
sitting in a tight loop,
even though maybe nothing has happened.
Maybe the user hasn't actually
done anything with the mouse in
terms of moving it or releasing
it or doing anything interesting.
It's doubly bad because this
requires inter-process communication.
We have to ask the Windows server
for the state of the mouse.
So instead,
use the API trackMouseLocation.
What this does is it
gets in the event loop,
and it blocks until the user
actually moves the mouse or does
something interesting with the mouse.
This frees the CPU up
for other processes.
You're not starving the processor
or starving other applications
that need to do things.
And also,
since it's blocked on the event loop,
if you have any timers installed,
they will still be called and your
application can continue processing
even while the mouse is down.
In addition,
there's a new mouse tracking region API.
This is new in Jaguar.
This is as a replacement for the mouse
region parameter in WaitNextEvent.
The advantages of this are using
the mouse region parameter in
WaitNextEvent limited you to one
mouse region per application.
While using the mouse
tracking region API,
you can have many regions per
window that you want to track.
And this allows you to get entered
notifications and exited notifications.
So if the user enters a
particular region of your window,
you'll get a notification
to do something.
This is useful if you need
to do cursor switching.
If you have a text field that
when you drag the cursor over,
you want to turn to an I-beam,
for example.
And this is also how
the window widgets work.
So when you drag the
mouse over the close,
minimize, or maximize widget,
we'll highlight them.
And this is exactly how it's done.
Step 2: Get rid of your Null
Event Idle Processing.
This is important because
you're just spinning.
You're sitting on WaitNextEvent waiting
for nothing to happen in order for
you to go ahead and do something.
So what is the problem?
What are you trying to solve
with ILEvent processing?
Well,
perhaps you need to do some processing
at periodic times to animate an image,
for instance, or blink the cursor.
or let's say you have a text editor
and you need to do repagination.
Well, you don't want to interfere with
the user while they're typing,
so you want to wait a
certain amount of time,
repaginate while they're
not doing anything,
or do some searching or
sorting in the background.
What are the problems
with using WaitNextEvent?
As I mentioned, it wastes CPU cycles.
Sometimes you're sitting there
and you're not interested in any
particular event at this one time.
You want to wait for a certain amount
of time before something happens.
But you're still returning
from WaitNextEvent and have
to do some calculations.
It's also not modular.
If you have a new module that
needs some idle processing,
you need to incorporate that,
include that into your existing code with
WaitNextEvent to handle some processing.
And it requires internal
logic to maintain timers.
And what I mean by that is,
let's say you have two
animations in your document.
One that needs to be animated four times
a second and one five times a second.
Well,
since WaitNextEvent is based on ticks,
the easiest solution is to call
yourself back 20 times a second,
do some calculations to figure
out which image needs to be
animated that particular time.
Solution?
Use event loop timers.
It's a very simple API,
and it allows you to
install one timer per task.
In my example, if you had two images
that you needed to update,
you would just install
one timer for one image,
a different timer for another image,
and each of those would only be
updated when they need to be updated.
There's also three classes of timers.
There's one shot for singular events.
That is, let's say you build up a cache,
you want to keep it around for
a particular amount of time,
and then flush it.
You'd use a one-shot timer for that.
Thank you.
There's periodic timers
for recurring events,
like an animation, cursor blanking, etc.
And new in Jaguar, there's idle timers.
Now, this is a type of timer that
you can install that will be
called when the user is idle,
in terms of moving the mouse,
keyboard input, etc.
There's more information
on this in Session 207,
which is Performance Carbon Events,
which, again, is tomorrow,
here in this hall at 3:30.
Like I mentioned,
the Event Loop Timer API is very simple.
There's Install Event Loop Timer.
This takes the event loop that you're
interested in installing this timer on,
so you can install per preemptive thread.
: Hi, everyone.
I'm Curt Rothert,
and I'm the founder of the
Carbon Event Management team.
and then the toolbox will never
get rid of a timer for you,
specifically for if you
want to reset the time.
So you'll always have to
call RemoveEventLoopTimer
when you're done using it.
I'm going to talk about idle timers
and show how easy it is to get up on
them and get off of WaitNextEvent.
I'd like to bring Bryan Prusha back up.
Thank you again, Curt.
All right, for this demo,
I have a WaitNextEvent-based app,
which I will convert over
to event loop timers.
So here we have... here
we have our main.cp.
And I initialized some
things from our NID.
This is, again, a NID-based app.
And I'm going to be running an
animation of the Game of Life.
You may have seen it
on some screen savers.
So I initialize my animation,
and then I run that nasty
boilerplate event loop code
wrapped around WaitNextEvent
that everybody has to write.
And then when I'm done
with the application,
I'm going to go ahead and
dispose of my animation.
So let's look at that
boilerplate event code.
Here we have WaitNextEvent.
And then when an event comes through,
we have to decide, okay,
is this a mouse down?
Is this a key down?
What are we going to do with each one
of those different types of events?
Oh, if it's a mouse down,
is it going to be in the menu bar?
Is it going to be in the
drag part of the menu?
I'm sorry, the drag part of the window?
And the go away box, the grow box,
all these things.
So all this code that you
have to handle manually.
and it becomes a lot of code.
So here we come back
again to WaitNextEvent.
And I'm calling this
back to every six ticks,
which is every ten times a second,
to update my animation.
Now, as Curt described,
we have to wait until
something doesn't happen.
So when WaitNextEvent returns false,
we're going to go ahead and come
down to this switch statement,
handle our null event,
and this is where I evolve the animation.
And so now that we've looked at this,
let's go ahead and run the
app and see what it does.
So here's the nice
animation running along,
updating every tenth of a second.
But what happens when an
event does happen and we
can't process on all events?
[Transcript missing]
Okay, then.
All right.
So if I go to resize my window, again,
everything stops.
Or if I just go to access the menu,
everything grinds to a halt.
This isn't necessarily the
greatest thing in the world.
So I'm going to go ahead and quit this.
And I'm going to go over
to my animation code.
Part of what Carbon Events does for
you is it allows you to bring the event
handling over to those parts of the
application where it really matters.
I want to keep my animation code together
with the event processing for it.
So here's my initialization routine.
And I grabbed some more
information from the nib.
And what I want to do in
this initialization now is
install an event loop timer.
So here I'm creating the
event loop timer UPP.
And I want to install that
on the current event loop.
So in the multi-threaded case,
this would be on whatever
thread I'm running in.
In this case, it's single thread.
I'm running on the main event loop.
Now I'm going to fire this off
immediately because I don't want
to wait for my animation to start.
I just want to get right
in there and going.
And again, like the WaitNextEvent case,
I'm going to go ahead and have this
call back every ten times a second.
And I'll pass through my UPP,
and I'll be notified
whenever this timer fires.
So here in my timer,
all I'm doing is calling Evolve
Life just like I was back
in the WaitNextEvent case.
Now that I install that timer,
I can go ahead and remove this
WaitNextEvent null idle processing.
It's no longer necessary.
So I'm gonna go ahead and rebuild.
One other thing that's very important
is once you move over to null event
processing-- or from null event
processing to event loop timers,
you want to give your WaitNext event
a very long timeout so it's not
being needlessly called back.
So we'll give it a very long timeout.
So now that I'm running on timers,
you'll see there are some basic
changes in the application.
For one, as soon as I do have events,
things don't stop processing.
This is great.
My animation keeps going.
And while I resize,
the animation continues,
and we can even watch the
animation underneath these
wonderful translucent menus.
So there we've converted the
WaitNext Event idle event processing
over to Carbon Event timers.
So thank you very much.
Back to you, Curt.
Thanks, Bryan.
So that looked pretty easy, didn't it?
You could get off of WaitNextEvent for
your event processing and use timers.
So those two steps I think
you could do today.
Get off of tracking the mouse
using while still down get mouse.
and also using Null
Event Processing with WaitNextEvent.
Step three.
Do your new development
with Carbon Events.
It helps you become familiar
with Carbon Events concepts,
data types, APIs,
when your event handlers are called, etc.
It won't impact your existing code.
Like I mentioned,
it encourages modularity.
So as you create a new module,
you can just plug it in.
It won't impact your
existing WaitNext Event code.
So do this when you have to
add new application features,
such as if you're going to do a toolbar,
or an inspector window,
or even new window definitions.
They can be completely
Carbon Event-based.
Also become familiar with using NIBs.
As you saw in Bryan's demo,
it was very easy to construct an
interface in Interface Builder.
And it generates what's called a NIB.
also do this when you want to
adopt new toolbox features.
Most new features will and are
implemented using Carbon Events,
such as the Services menu,
the mouse tracking
regions which I mentioned,
even HI Object,
which is this cool new philosophy
that we're really excited about.
It'll be talked more about tomorrow
at 9:00 in this hall in the overview
of the HI Toolbox architecture.
All Carbon Event-based.
It's very cool.
So step four,
migrate your existing event processing
over to using Carbon Events.
You don't have to deal with all
the event dispatching yourself.
Give that responsibility to us.
[Transcript missing]
So what's the problem with
handling events the old way?
What's wrong with it?
Well, it's limited to 16 types of events,
and that's simply because WaitNextEvent's
event mask is a 16-bit integer.
Since it has the limitation of
only returning 16 types of events,
it gives you the low-level event.
A mouse down has occurred,
a keyboard down has occurred.
It doesn't have a full,
rich sense of events,
like actions that have happened.
You also see that it's the
main bottleneck for idle event
processing and mouse tracking,
which I already mentioned.
It makes your architecture very
difficult and hard to maintain.
and you are required to
do the proper dispatching.
So if we ever want to change behavior,
you have to go maintain your code.
Change it.
Now, an example of that is when the proxy
icon was added to the window title bar.
If you wanted to take advantage of that,
you were required to go into
your WaitNextEvent-based code
and deal with that accordingly.
We want to give you an
extensible solution.
So the easiest thing to do
is use the standard handlers.
You get standard behaviors for free.
For example, with the window,
you saw in Bryan's first example that
you could drag the window around,
resize it.
All that was provided
for free by the toolbox.
And now if we include
any future technologies,
you'll also get that for free.
And it allows you to migrate
off of WaitNextEvent.
So for a window,
if you want to take advantage
of standard handlers,
you would set the
KWindowStandardHandler attribute.
Now, this you could do in
creation with the API.
It takes attributes.
There's also an API change
window attributes.
Or if you're using Interface Builder,
there's a checkbox that
says Standard Handler.
And you click it,
and you get all this for free.
Resizing, dragging, tracking the widgets.
Very cool.
Then you can also customize the behavior.
If you're not satisfied with the standard
behavior provided by the toolbox,
you can go ahead and install handlers
for the events that you're interested in.
Let's say you want to know when
the user has dragged a window
close to the edge of the screen,
so you could snap the window
to the edge of the screen.
Well, you could install a handler to
find out when the window has moved,
and then change data in
that event ref accordingly,
and the toolbox will listen
to that and snap the window.
Or let's say you want to grow the window,
and you want to constrain the size so
it doesn't just have odd dimensions.
You can also do that.
Install a handler for
that particular event,
a bounds-changing event.
[Transcript missing]
I mentioned earlier that you can
control the propagation of an event as
it's dispatched through the hierarchy.
Well, for standard handling,
you would set the standard handler
attribute and then do nothing.
The toolbox takes care
of everything for you.
Now let's say you want to override
some of the standard behavior.
Well, you would install a handler
on a target for the particular
event you're interested in.
You'd handle that event,
and then you return no error.
Processing stops--it doesn't
propagate any further.
But let's say you want to
modify the standard behavior.
You want to get the standard behavior,
but you want to do something in addition.
Well, you still can do that.
If you want to pre-process,
you install your handler on a
target for that particular event.
When your handler is called,
you can do something and
return event not handled there.
The toolbox will continue propagation.
or you could post-process it.
And you would explicitly
continue propagation by
calling CallNextEventHandler.
Or you could do a combination of both.
Now let's go on to some
advanced event processing.
So that's kind of the basics.
Now, it can also be useful to
create your own events.
Let's say you have a command
handler for the Close event,
like for a window.
What you've seen is that the user has
tracked over the close box of a window,
and you want to generate a close command.
So you can use the API createEvent and
direct that towards the application
so all your event handling goes
through the same bottleneck,
if you will, the same handling.
You can also use Carbon Events for
internal communication.
Go ahead and define
your own event classes,
and then you can use-- create event,
send the event to a target.
Let's say you created a module
for an inspector window,
and all the event
handling's dealt with that,
and it defines an interface
using event classes.
A different part of your application
can create an event of that class,
send it to the window,
and it can react to that.
It's also useful for communicating
between preemptive threads.
So you've done all of that.
And you don't want to stay
so long to WaitNextEvent.
What are the steps to doing that?
So follow all four steps
I mentioned earlier.
When you're done with that,
maximize the sleep,
which you saw Bryan do.
And what that does is it makes
sure that your timers are doing
what you would expect them to do,
that your application continues to
process events the way you would expect.
Then,
you remove WaitNextEvent and replace
it with runApplicationEventLoop.
I'll describe that API next.
And then finally,
you would remove all of the
WaitNextEvent artifacts.
All of that switch case
stuff just should go away.
RunApplicationEventLoop,
the replacement for WaitNextEvent,
when you call it,
it enters the event loop,
and then it will block
until any events occur.
That means that your application
is not processing events,
it's not doing anything until
something interesting happens.
So this provides a good
user experience to the user,
because your application does not consume
resources when it's not doing anything.
While it's in this function,
it will dispatch events to
your handlers as they come in,
and it will only return when
QuitApplicationEventLoop is called.
Now, that can either be called explicitly
by you and one of your event handlers
or implicitly by the toolbox.
For example,
it will take care of the H-I command
Quit and call this function,
so it will return from
RunApplicationEventLoop
and come out of your code.
And so to go through these
advanced things and actually
show a very cool demo,
I'd like to call Bryan back up.
All right, thank you again, Curt.
This time I'm going
to knock on wood here.
All right, I'm going to come back
to this animation demo.
And what I'm going to do
first is go open the nib.
So there's some things
I want to do there.
I want to start using
standard event handlers.
I want to kind of get
myself off of WaitNextEvent.
So here's the main window.
And so down here, as Curt mentioned,
there's the standard handler checkbox.
Now I'm gonna click it.
Now that I'm using standard handlers,
I'm gonna click live resize,
and I'll get live resize
in the standard behavior.
I can save off that nib.
I'm going to come back to the code.
I'll go again to the animation code.
And here there is more code to uncomment.
So I'm going to install another
command event process handler.
And so this looks just
like it did before.
I'm installing this on the
application event target.
I have my handler.
And the same KEVENT class command,
KEVENT command process
types for the event.
So I'll come down here
and look at the handler.
And like before,
I'll call getEventParameter,
get the direct object,
which is the command,
and I'll switch off the command ID.
But I want to handle
specifically the khicmdnew,
which is outlined in carbontevents.h.
And I'm going to initialize
my animation here.
and again, return no error,
because I want to be the only
thing that handles the new command.
I'm also going to handle
khicmdquit and dispose of all
the pieces of my animation.
But this I do want to
go ahead and continue,
so I'm going to return
event not handled error.
because I want to have
the standard handler call
QuitApplicationEventLoop on my behalf.
Now I can go back to my main.cp.
Because I'm handling the quit command,
I no longer have to dispose
of my animation here.
In fact, because I'm using
standard event handlers,
I no longer need my
boilerplate event loop.
Instead, this is going to be replaced
by runApplicationEventLoop.
And since I'm no longer using
my boilerplate event code,
I can simply delete it.
certainly makes that file a lot shorter,
which is very nice.
Good benefit.
Okay,
now I'm going to go ahead and run this.
And we'll see that I can
actually remove code,
and using the standard event handlers,
I don't have... The application
still behaves very similarly
to what it did before.
I can still drag it around,
the widgets still update,
and now I even get benefits for free,
like live resizing.
And again, the menus still track.
I can close this window...
and then choose New,
and it comes back.
So I'm now handling all my event
processing in my animation code itself.
So everything is all
localized and modularized.
Now, just to really belabor this point,
I'm gonna go ahead and add a completely
new module to this application.
I have a new module set up right here.
I'm just going to drag
it into Project Builder,
into my sources.
I'll add it.
And so I have just some code,
a header file,
and a nib part of my module.
I'm going to go back to my
main code and include module.h.
and then I'll initialize my module just
like I initialized my life animation.
Now, in my module,
I handle the MODL command ID.
So I'm going to go back to my main nib.
and add a new menu item.
I'll just duplicate the new item here.
And I'll say "new module." I'll give
it a new command key equivalent.
And then in this menu item,
I want to handle the MODL--
and the MODL command.
Now, when I choose this menu item,
it'll send out this command,
be intercepted by the event
handler that was installed in my
module during the initialization,
and it'll create the new module for me.
Save that off.
Go ahead and rerun.
and now with very little effort,
I'm able to add a completely
new module to my application.
Now,
this module also has standard events,
so I can go ahead and
just drag this around.
It's completely separate from this.
I didn't have to handle
anything specifically.
I can resize live just
like I could before.
And if I close this and choose
New Module from the File menu,
it'll pop up and just start going again.
So I can dynamically dispose
and recreate my module.
So here it is,
complete new functionality,
completely wrapped up.
So if there are two groups working on
the development of this application,
they can work independently and
with very little work integrate
them together into their app.
So thank you very much.
Back to Curt.
Thanks, Bryan.
So you can see, it was very little effort
to take a new module.
You don't have to know anything
about the module other than
the interface to initialize it.
Maybe some Carbon Events,
event class or two that
the new module requires.
and the integration was very easy.
Plug it into Project Builder,
and it just built and worked.
So some tips for using Carbon Events.
Sometimes you may not know
what events are coming in,
going out,
what I should be installing a handler on.
Well,
you can find out what events are going
on by setting this environment variable,
event trace.
Now, there's a number of ways to do this,
but on Mac OS X, in Terminal,
what you would do is you would
type in setEnv event trace 1,
and that sets the environment variable,
and then you would launch your
application from that terminal session.
Better make sure your
terminal buffer's pretty high,
because there's a lot of spewage that
comes out telling you which events
are being sent and what's going on.
There's also some very valuable
information on the web in a Tips and
Tricks page for Carbon Events.
It's on Apple's developer website.
So I hope I've been able to impress
upon you that migration is easy.
I mean, it's an incremental process.
I don't expect you to do all of it today.
There's some that can be done today.
But it's useful to do any new
development using Carbon Events.
In fact, you should be doing all new
development with Carbon Events.
Carbon Events are the
future of the toolbox.
This is the direction that we're going.
If you want to take
advantage of new features,
you'll have to be Carbon Event-based.
So it's useful to get
up and on there now.
And it's a must-have for being
good OS X citizens in terms of
performance and functionality.
Like I mentioned,
there's a lot of new functionality
that's Carbon Event only.
If you want to take advantage of that,
you have to be up on Carbon Events.
There's some excellent
documentation available.
There's a Carbon Porting Guide.
There's a book on handling Carbon Events,
Carbon Event Manager Reference.
There's some documentation
on your Jaguar CD.
and John Lennon will be
joining us for the session.
Five steps of migration.
It's pretty straightforward.
You saw Bryan go through
everything today.
Replace the track and loops.
Get rid of WaitNextEvent-hidling.
Design all of your new
features using Carbon Events.
Migrate your event processing
over to Carbon Events.
And finally,
get rid of WaitNextEvent and all
the cruft associated with that.
and the High-Level Toolbox
team is completely monopolizing
this room tomorrow,
so I'd encourage you to go see all
of the sessions that are available.
There's an architectural overview,
which will discuss new features
coming into the toolbox.
A HIView session, excellent session.
New controls and services to go in more
depth of what's going on in the toolbox,
new stuff that's available.
And I highly recommend seeing Improving
Performance with Carbon Events,
and that's at 3:30.
And that will teach you how to use
To Be a Better Citizen for performance.